, part two.

On page 98, we are still using "gustar," but now we're introducing "me gustaría ir" (I would like to go).

Le gustaría ir? (Would you like to go?)

Then we have:
1. Al parque
2. Al cine
3. Al teatro
4. Al campo

These are words we had from earlier in the book. We have our images for practice:
(a) Le gustaría ir al parque? Sí, me gustaría ir al parque.
(b) Le gustaría ir al teatro? Sí, me gustaría ir al teatro.

This continues for "cine" and "campo." At the bottom of page 98, there are two more examples:
1. Me gustaría nadar.
2. Me gustaría estudiar español.

Page 99 introduces a new concept that is still in the "I like" family: "me encanta" (I love / it enchants me). We have the following vocabulary:
1. El queso
2. El pavo
3. El salmón
4. El tocino

There are two pictures: "Me encanta el salmón" and "Me encanta el pavo." Then there is a repetitive section for practice:
(a) Me encanta el queso.
(b) Me encanta el tocino.
(c) Me encanta el café.
(d) Me encanta el chocolate.
(e) Me encanta México.
(f) Me encanta Costa Rica.
(g) Me encanta Caracas.

We can use our sentence combinator with "me encanta" in the first column and these items in the second column.

Note that at the end of page 99, there is a reminder: in Spanish, you do not say "I love cheese." You must say "I love the cheese" or "I love the bacon." You must add the definite article to whatever you love.

Page 100 introduces "me encantan" for plural items. The vocabulary includes:
1. Fresas
2. Cerezas
3. Cebollas
4. Aceitunas

There are pictures of cherries, olives, strawberries, and onions (cebollas), all used with "me encantan las." 

Reminder: 
1. Me encanta is used for singular items (e.g., "Me encanta el chocolate").
2. Me encantan is used for plural items (e.g., "Me encantan las cebollas"). 

Page 101 returns to "me encantaría ir" (I would love to go). The locations are:
1. Al cine
2. Al campo
3. Al museo
4. Al centro

There are pictures of a movie theater and the countryside:
(a) Me encantaría ir al cine.
(b) Me encantaría ir al campo.

We can use the sentence former again:
1. Column One: Me encantaría ir
2. Column Two:
   (a) Al museo
   (b) Al centro
   (c) Al club
   (d) A Venezuela
   (e) A Buenos Aires
   (f) Al ballet
   (g) Al teatro
   (h) A nadar
   (i) A la playa

Ending sentence (question and answer) at the bottom of page 101:
"Le gustaría ir al cine?" (Would you like to go to the movies?)
"Sí, me encantaría ir al cine."