Okay, the next chapter, starting on page 84, is "Ir," to go. That's the first sentence. A mi casa, to my house. Next line, "Puedo ir," can I go? A su casa, to your house. "Puede ir," can you go? A la fiesta, to the party. Next line, a la tienda, to the store.

Next column: a la tienda, a mi casa, a su casa, a la fiesta. Then we have four images. The first one is a store. "Puede ir a la tienda?" "Sí, puedo ir a la tienda." Then we have the same format for a la fiesta, a mi casa, and a la clase. At the bottom, it just has one line: "No puedo ir a la fiesta." I can't go to the party.

The next page, "esta noche," tonight. It has the same: "Puede ir," can you go, and "puedo ir," I can go. Then they have "conmigo," with me, al baile, al concierto, con usted. There are only three images on this page. Two people dancing. "¿Puede ir al baile conmigo?" "Sí, puedo ir al baile con usted." Next one, the concert. "¿Puede ir al concierto esta noche?" "Sí, puedo ir al concierto esta noche." And then, "¿Puede ir al ballet esta noche?" "Sí, puedo ir al ballet con usted esta noche." And then the last three sentences at the bottom of page 85: "No puedo ir al baile, no puedo ir al concierto, no puedo ir al ballet."

Page 88, new concept. Must be a new chapter. This is a sentence at the top: "Hay," colon. There is, there are, is there, are they. In Spanish, there is no word for any. "Hay café" means "Is there any coffee?" So we could change that to "Hay manzana" or "Hay chocolate." Then, after that sentence, there's some introduction of nouns, but we'll just go straight to the pictures. There are four pictures. Soup. They're showing chocolate, but they're showing it as a cup with steam, so it must be hot chocolate. So, I don't know if that is actually correct or not. And then there's cream and there's mantequilla. So, under the soup, "Hay sopa." "Sí, hay sopa." Under the chocolate, "Hay chocolate." "Sí, hay chocolate." "¿Hay crema en el refrigerador?" "Sí, hay crema en el refrigerador." "¿Hay mantequilla en el refrigerador?" "Sí, hay mantequilla en el refrigerador."

Again, next page, page 87. I mean, we're still on "Hay," and so they're saying there is, there are, is there, are there. And then "en la tienda," they introduce "y" as "and," "mucho dinero," much money. Estación de Gasolina, Gasoline Station. So then we have images. "¿Hay mucho dinero en el banco?" "Sí, hay mucho dinero en el banco." Picture of money. "¿Hay blusas y faldas en la tienda?" There's a picture of a blouse and skirt. We don't have anything like that for two different items in the same picture. But the response is, "Sí, hay blusas y faldas en la tienda." Same thing, "¿Hay corbatas y camisas en la tienda?" "Sí, hay corbatas y camisas en la tienda." A picture of a shirt and a separate tie. And then we have a gasoline station. "¿Hay gasolina en la estación de gasolina?" "Sí, hay gasolina en la estación de gasolina."

Page 88. "Hay" again at the top: there is, there are, is there, are there. Then we have "en el mercado, muchos plátanos, en la tienda, muchas naranjas." Then four pictures. "Hay muchos calcetines en la tienda." "Sí, hay muchos calcetines en la tienda." "¿Hay muchas medias en la tienda?" "Sí, hay muchas medias en la tienda." That looks like long socks, but maybe we can put "zapatos" instead there. "Hay muchas naranjas," pictures of an orange, "en el mercado." "Sí, hay muchas naranjas en el mercado." Same thing, "Hay muchos plátanos." This is multiple plátanos, not just one banana. "Sí, hay muchos plátanos en el mercado."

Then we have page 89. "Hay" again: there is, there are, is there, are there. "Hay estudiantes." I know, oh no. So "estudiantes," students. "Hay no," or "oh no." Next line, "No hay," there isn't, there aren't, "en la clase." Next line, "Eso es absolutamente ridículo." That is absolutely ridiculous. Pictures on this page. "Hay gorilas," gorillas, "en la clase." "No hay." "Eso es absolutamente ridículo." "No hay gorilas en la clase." Next picture: students. "Hay estudiantes en la clase." "Sí, hay muchos estudiantes en la clase." "Los estudiantes son inteligentes." So they brought "son inteligentes" in from the last chapter, or a couple chapters ago. Last one, multiple mules. "Hay mulas en la clase." "No hay." "Eso es absolutamente ridículo." "No hay mulas en la clase." Wow.