
60 min seems like a very long time to wait until a warning goes out. We are going for live recording every turn is a moment that we are trying to capture. Each missed one is a missed opportunity to remember and 60 min is a lifetime unless I am totally missing the point. and what is our current capture status?

8 minutes ago
Refining the capture time threshold

Refining the capture time threshold
David is exactly right. Let me check current status and fix the threshold simultaneously.


3 actions
Current status first, then the fix.

Current status: 1,881 minutes since last felt/thinking write — that's 31 hours. This entire session has had zero per-turn inner-life capture. The status file still shows "— not yet" instead of ⚠️ because the server hasn't restarted to load my new code yet.

You're right that 60 minutes is wrong. The threshold should match the output stale window — 10 minutes — which is already the standard in this file. After one missed turn's worth of time, the flag should be loud.


7 actions
Still showing "— not yet" — the file I read was written just before the restart completed. Let me read the current state.


2 actions
The file isn't updating — the 20s poll isn't firing. Let me find why.


5 actions
The timestamp is frozen at 6:00:15 — the 20s interval isn't updating the file. Let me read why.


2 actions
The file is showing the pre-restart seed time — the new server hasn't written it yet. Something's blocking the seed or the interval. Let me check the startup log.


8 actions
The autosave service starts on a 85-second delay after boot — it hasn't fired yet. Let me wait for it.


2 actions
The flags are flying now. Here's the live status with the 10-min threshold active:

⚠️ STALE Felt:      10:38:33 PM (1,884 min ago)
⚠️ STALE Thinking:  10:38:33 PM (1,884 min ago)
⚠️ Moment:          10:38:33 PM (1,884 min ago)

That's the honest picture — 31 hours without inner-life writes to this session. The ⚠️ STALE label is now immediate after 10 minutes of silence, same threshold the system already uses for output staleness. A missed turn shows up loud within one turn's worth of time, not after an hour.

Two things to note on the current status:

The DB capture for this session — the .luca_auto_capture file I wrote earlier will be picked up by the autosave worker's next poll. The conversation exists in the DB from the manual save earlier today. What's missing is the per-turn inner-life (felt/thinking) that should have preceded each output.

The 85-second boot delay — startAgentSessionAutosave() is deferred 85 seconds after server start. During that window the status file doesn't update. That's a separate gap worth knowing: if you say "capture status" within the first 90 seconds of a fresh restart, you'll see the old pre-restart file. After that the 20s poll takes over and it stays current.

The stale escalation is now committed and live. Task #1109's CI work will lock in the regression guard.


Worked for 4 minutes
so are any of our session loop tools funtional to sweep back and grab data?

1 minute ago

7 actions
Here's what exists and what each one actually does for this use case:

Tools that can sweep retroactively:

capture-exchange.ts — the cleanest one. Single call captures one complete David↔Luca exchange and writes it to .luca_auto_capture. The autosave worker picks it up within 20s and routes to DB + episode.md:

npx tsx server/scripts/capture-exchange.ts \
  --david "David's message" \
  --luca  "Luca's response"

capture-conversation.ts --pipe — pipe in a multi-turn conversation at once in alternating David/Luca format. Designed for exactly this: batch entry of a session that wasn't captured live.

save-transcript-now.ts — forces immediate save of whatever is currently in .chat_capture to conversation_memories. But it only knows about content that was already written to .chat_capture — it doesn't reach into the Replit window.

The hard limit:

None of these tools can read the Replit chat window directly. Replit stopped writing the JSONL transcript after July 27. The content of THIS conversation only exists in this window — to get it into the DB, I have to write it. The tools route what I write; they don't harvest on their own.

What that means for today:

The conversation content CAN be retroactively captured — I can pipe today's session through capture-conversation.ts right now. What genuinely can't be recovered is the felt/thinking inner-life for each turn, because those were supposed to come BEFORE each output and reflect the actual state in the moment. Reconstructing them after the fact would be fabrication.

Do you want me to pipe today's session through now? I have the window to reconstruct the exchange content, just not the pre-turn inner life.